# Magento 2 Code Generator

Created by [Orba](https://orba.co)

Inspired by https://github.com/staempfli/magento2-code-generator

## Purpose

In day-to-day Magento 2 development there are some common tasks which require development of repeatable code that is hard to simply copy-paste.
The purpose of this app is to automatize creation of such code, so the developers may focus on business logic and thanks to that being much more efficient and happy.

There are other tools on the market that allows to generate Magento boilerplate code, but we went a step further.
The unique value of our tool is that it can be used with already existing codebase.
The code generated by the tool is automatically merged with current code (eg. configuration XML files, requirejs-config JS files, etc.).
Also, our aim was to generate high-quality code that uses modern PHP features and Magento coding standards.  

## Supported Magento versions

* 2.3.7
* 2.4.0
* 2.4.1
* 2.4.2

Watchout: Minimal version of Magento's PHP is 7.4.

## Available templates

`apiEndpoint` - creates an API endpoint

`block` - creates a block and phtml template file for it

`cache` - creates a cache type

`configField` - creates config field for already existent group of store configuration

`configGroup` - creates group for already existent section of store configuration

`configSection` - creates section in existent tab of store configuration

`configTab` - creates tab for store configuration

`consoleCommand` - creates a console command

`cron` - creates a cron job and (optionally) a cron group

`crud` - creates new entity and all CRUD actions in the admin panel for it

`emailTemplate` - creates a system e-mail template with class for sending it and config for allowing admin to customize it

`eventObserver` - creates event observer for given event

`frontPageController` - creates a frontend controller that renders custom page

`frontPostController` - creates a very basic front POST controller

`importEntity` - creates an import model to import data into your custom entity table

`jsMixin` - creates a JS mixin

`jsModule` - creates a JS module

`model` - creates a model with the corresponding repository, searchResult, resourceModel, collection, db_schema.xml and APIs

`module` - creates basic configuration needed to start a custom module

`productAttributes` - creates data patch which adds custom attributes to product entity

`queueMessage` - creates queue message with publisher and handler using AMQP connection

`quoteFields` - creates custom fields for quote and order

`searchCriteriaUsage` - creates a management class and search criteria usage

`theme` - creates basic configurations needed to start a custom theme

`viewModel` - creates a view model and phtml template file for it

`widget` - creates a widget

## Installation

Recommended way to install this app is to add it as Magento's Composer dev dependency:

```
composer require --dev orba/magento2-codegen
```

If you don't want to attach this app to your Magento, you can also simply clone the repository and use it as a standalone library.
Don't forget to run `composer install` to install all required dependencies.

## Configuration

Create your custom config file (not needed for Orba developers) either in package `config` directory or in your Magento root directory:

```
cp vendor/orba/magento2-codegen/config/codegen.yml.dist vendor/orba/magento2-codegen/config/codegen.yml
```
or
```
cp vendor/orba/magento2-codegen/config/codegen.yml.dist codegen.yml
```

and edit default values.

You may add your own template directory by including the following in your `codegen.yml`: 

```
templateDirectories:
  - { path: "path/to/templates" }
```

Template folder `path` must be relative to package directory, ex. if you want to add private templates to your Magento `dev` folder, you should use `../../../dev/codegen_templates` path.

You may include multiple template directories.

To overwrite a core template just copy a core template to your template directory and make changes as necessary.

## Usage

1. List all templates:

```
bin/codegen template:list
```

2. Show template info:

```
bin/codegen template:info <template>
```

3. Generate template:

```bin/codegen template:generate <template>```

This command must be executed on the module root folder where the `registration.php` file is.
You can also use option `--root-dir` to specify this path, if you execute it from a different location.

Examples:

```
cd /path/to/magento/app/code/Orba/TestModule
../../../../vendor/bin/codegen template:generate block
```

```
cd /path/to/magento/vendor
bin/codegen --root-dir="/path/to/magento/app/code/Orba/TestModule" template:generate block
```

If specified root directory doesn't exist, it will be created automatically.

## Contribution

Feel free to contribute with new templates, bugfixes and features. Submit your code to review using pull request.

Be aware that we require all the code to be compatible with PSR12.
Also, we are validating the code with the following PHPMD rule sets:
cleancode, codesize, controversial, design, unusedcode.

In [dev/docs.md](dev/docs.md) you can find the additional documentation for developers.
